## ARP

ARP provides two basic functions:

Resolving IPv4 addresses to MAC addresses
Maintaining a table of IPv4 to MAC address mappings

---
An ARP request is sent when a device needs to determine the MAC address that is associated with an IPv4 address, and it does not have an entry for the IPv4 address in its ARP table.

ARP messages are encapsulated directly within an Ethernet frame. There is no IPv4 header. The ARP request is encapsulated in an Ethernet frame using the following header information:

* Destination MAC address – This is a broadcast address FF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF requiring all Ethernet NICs on the LAN to accept and process the ARP request.
Source MAC address – This is MAC address of the sender of the ARP request.
* Type - ARP messages have a type field of 0x806. This informs the receiving NIC that the data portion of the frame needs to be passed to the ARP process.
Because ARP requests are broadcasts, they are flooded out all ports by the switch, except the receiving port. All Ethernet NICs on the LAN process broadcasts and must deliver the ARP request to its operating system for processing. Every device must process the ARP request to see if the target IPv4 address matches its own. A router will not forward broadcasts out other interfaces.

Only one device on the LAN will have an IPv4 address that matches the target IPv4 address in the ARP request. All other devices will not reply.

### 9.2.4 ARP Reply
Only the device with the target IPv4 address associated with the ARP request will respond with an ARP reply. The ARP reply is encapsulated in an Ethernet frame using the following header information:

* Destination MAC address – This is the MAC address of the sender of the ARP request.
* Source MAC address – This is the MAC address of the sender of the ARP reply.
Type - ARP messages have a type field of 0x806. This informs the receiving NIC that the data portion of the frame needs to be passed to the ARP process.
Only the device that originally sent the ARP request will receive the unicast ARP reply. After the ARP reply is received, the device will add the IPv4 address and the corresponding MAC address to its ARP table. Packets destined for that IPv4 address can now be encapsulated in frames using its corresponding MAC address.

If no device responds to the ARP request, the packet is dropped because a frame cannot be created.

Entries in the ARP table are time stamped. If a device does not receive a frame from a particular device before the timestamp expires, the entry for this device is removed from the ARP table.

Additionally, static map entries can be entered in an ARP table, but this is rarely done. Static ARP table entries do not expire over time and must be manually removed.

Note: IPv6 uses a similar process to ARP for IPv4, known as ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND). IPv6 uses neighbor solicitation and neighbor advertisement messages, similar to IPv4 ARP requests and ARP replies.

### 9.2.7 ARP Tables on Networking Devices
On a Cisco router, the ```show ip``` arp command is used to display the ARP table, as shown in the figure.
```
R1# show ip arp 
Protocol  Address          Age (min)  Hardware Addr   Type   Interface
Internet  192.168.10.1            -   a0e0.af0d.e140  ARPA   GigabitEthernet0/0/0
Internet  209.165.200.225         -   a0e0.af0d.e141  ARPA   GigabitEthernet0/0/1
Internet  209.165.200.226         1   a03d.6fe1.9d91  ARPA   GigabitEthernet0/0/1
R1#
```
On a Windows 10 PC, the ```arp –a``` command is used to display the ARP table, as shown in the figure.
```
C:\Users\PC> arp -a
Interface: 192.168.1.124 --- 0x10
  Internet Address      Physical Address      Type
  192.168.1.1           c8-d7-19-cc-a0-86     dynamic
  192.168.1.101         08-3e-0c-f5-f7-77     dynamic
  192.168.1.110         08-3e-0c-f5-f7-56     dynamic
  192.168.1.112         ac-b3-13-4a-bd-d0     dynamic
  192.168.1.117         08-3e-0c-f5-f7-5c     dynamic
  192.168.1.126         24-77-03-45-5d-c4     dynamic
  192.168.1.146         94-57-a5-0c-5b-02     dynamic
  192.168.1.255         ff-ff-ff-ff-ff-ff     static
  224.0.0.22            01-00-5e-00-00-16     static
  224.0.0.251           01-00-5e-00-00-fb     static
  239.255.255.250       01-00-5e-7f-ff-fa     static
  255.255.255.255       ff-ff-ff-ff-ff-ff     static
C:\Users\PC>
```
### 9.3.1 IPv6 Neighbor Discovery
If your network is using the IPv6 communications protocol, the Neighbor Discovery protocol, or ND, is what you need to match IPv6 addresses to MAC addresses. This topic explains how ND works.